[DX-615] Release Notes For Tyk GW + Dashboard (#3174)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/release-notes/version-5.2.md

- Added an optimised query execution engine for GraphQL, activated by setting [opentelemetry.enabled]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#opentelemetryenabled" >}}) to _true_. This integration enhances observability by enabling GQL traces in [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/), granting users comprehensive insights into the execution process, including request times.

- Added a new [timeout option]({{< ref "basic-config-and-security/reduce-latency/caching/advanced-cache#advanced-caching-by-endpoint" >}}), offering granular control over cache timeout at the endpoint level.

- Added support for using [request context variables]({{< ref "context-variables#the-available-context-variables-are" >}}) in UDG global or data source headers. This feature enables much more advanced header management for UDG and allows users to extract header information from an incoming request and pass it to upstream data sources.

- Added support for configuration of global headers for any UDG. These headers will be forwarded to all data sources by default, enhancing control over data flow.

> - Added the ability for Custom Plugin developers to access the OAS API Definition through the newly introduced _ctx.getOASDefinition_ function. This enhancement simplifies development, without permitting modifications to the OAS API Definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added the ability for Custom GoPlugin developers using Tyk OAS APIs to access the API Definition from within their plugin. The newly introduced _ctx.getOASDefinition_ function provides read-only access to the OAS API Definition and enhances the flexibility of plugins.
```

- Added support for the websocket protocol, _graphql-transport-ws protocol_, enhancing communication between the client and Gateway. Users connecting with the header _Sec-WebSocket-Protocol_ set to _graphql-transport-ws_ can now utilise messages from this [protocol](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md) for more versatile interaction.

> - Added support for API Developers to effortlessly configure the Body response transform middleware for specific OAS API endpoints using the operationID of an OAS Path. This enhancement ensures streamlined and selective loading of the middleware based on configuration, enabling precise response data customization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for API Developers using Tyk OAS APIs to configure a body transform middleware that operates on API responses. This enhancement ensures streamlined and selective loading of the middleware based on configuration, enabling precise response data customization at the per-endpoint level.
```

> - Added support for enhanced Gateway usage reporting. MDCB v2.4 and Gateway v5.2 can now report number of connected gateways and groups. Features such as edge gateway visualisation is available in Dashboard for enhanced monitoring of your deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for enhanced Gateway usage reporting. MDCB v2.4 and Gateway v5.2 can now report the number of connected gateways and data planes. Features such as data plane gateway visualisation is available in Dashboard for enhanced monitoring of your deployment.
```

Reviewer: I believe we're going with "data plane", not "edge". @caroltyk

Author: Ok thanks @andyo-tyk I'll commit the suggestion

### Changed:
- Updated _Response Body Transform_ middleware for Tyk Classic APIs to remove unnecessary entries in the API definition. The dependency on the _response_processor.response_body_transform_ configuration has been removed to streamline middleware usage, simplifying API setup.

### Fixed:
- Fixed an issue with querying a UDG API containing a query parameter of array type in a REST data source. The UDG was dropping the array type parameter from the final request URL sent upstream.

- Fixed an issue with introspecting GraphQL schemas that previously raised an error when dealing with custom root types other than _Query_, _Mutation_, or _Subscription_.

> - Fixed an issue in where duplicate API names and listen paths could be created. Configurations are now unique.

Reviewer: Again, not sure which ticket this relates to?

Author: @andyo-tyk This one is https://tyktech.atlassian.net/browse/TT-9747

Reviewer: This isn't a Gateway change -> there's only a PR for the Dashboard UI.

Author: Thanks @andyo-tyk , I've moved this to Dashboard release note

- Fixed an issue where the _enforced timeout_ configuration parameter of an API endpoint accepted negative values, without displaying validation errors. With this fix, users receive clear feedback and prevent unintended configurations.

- Fixed an issue where _allowedIPs_ validation failures replaced the reported errors list, causing the loss of other error types. This fix appends IP validation errors to the list, providing users with a comprehensive overview of encountered errors. Subsequently, this enhances the clarity and completeness of validation reporting.

### Community Contributions

Special thanks to the following members of the Tyk community for their contributions in this release:

**Example**

> Thanks to PatrickTaibel for fixing an issue where global_size_limit was not enabling request size limit middleware.

Reviewer: None for Core APIM

Author: Ok, thanks @andyo-tyk I have removed the community contribution section

Author: Done, community contribution removed

With this release we are adding a concept of header management in Universal Data Graph. With multiple upstream data sources, data graphs need to be sending the right headers upstream, so that our users can effectively track the usage and be able to enforce security rules at each stage. All Universal Data Graph headers now have access to request context variables like JWT claims, IP address of the connecting client or request ID.

### Added Further Support For GraphQL WebSocket Protocols

Support for WebSocket protocols between client and the Gateway has also been expanded. Instead of only supporting the _graphql-ws protocol_, which is becoming deprecated, we now also support _graphql-transport-ws_.

### Added OpenTelemetry Tracing

In this version, we're introducing a new feature called OpenTelemetry Tracing. This addition gives you improved visibility into how API requests are processed. It's designed to help with plugin development, improve performance, detect errors, and facilitate troubleshooting. For detailed information and guidance, you can check out our OpenTelemetry Tracing resource.

```
{{< warning success >}}
**Warning**

> With the release of Tyk Gateway 5.2, we're introducing a powerful new feature: OpenTelemetry Tracing. Over the next year, we'll be deprecating OpenTracing. We recommend migrating to OpenTelemetry for better trace insights and more comprehensive support. This change will offer you significant advantages in managing your distributed tracing needs.

Reviewer: In my browser (Safari) this warning is not wrapping, so it looks really bad; it also seems to be in a code block as it gives me the option to copy to clipboard...

![image](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-docs/assets/99968932/171c7875-bcd0-4446-97d1-b25fd4b1a569)

Reviewer 2: yes, same for me

Author: Thanks @andyo-tyk @letzya I have fixed and updated

# Tyk Gateway 5.2 Release Notes

**Open Source**

## Breaking Changes

This release has no breaking changes.

## Release Highlights

> We're thrilled to bring you some exciting enhancements and crucial fixes to improve your experience of Tyk Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're thrilled to bring you some exciting enhancements and crucial fixes to improve your experience with Tyk Gateway. For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog]({{< ref "#changelog">}}) below.
```

Reference the Tyk OAS API definition from within your custom Go Plugins, bringing them up to standard alongside those you might use with a Tyk Classic API.

#### Configure Caching For Each API Endpoint

We’ve added the ability to configure per-endpoint timeouts for Tyk’s response cache, giving you increased flexibility to tailor your APIs to your upstream services.

#### Added Header Management in Universal Data Graph

With this release we are adding a concept of header management in Universal Data Graph. With multiple upstream data sources, data graphs need to be sending the right headers upstream, so that our users can effectively track the usage and be able to enforce security rules at each stage. All Universal Data Graph headers now have access to request context variables like JWT claims, IP address of the connecting client or request ID.

#### Added Further Support For GraphQL WebSocket Protocols

Support for WebSocket protocols between client and the Gateway has also been expanded. Instead of only supporting the _graphql-ws protocol_, which is becoming deprecated, we now also support _graphql-transport-ws_.

#### Added OpenTelemetry Tracing

> In this version, we're introducing a new feature called OpenTelemetry Tracing. This addition gives you improved visibility into how API requests are processed. It's designed to help with plugin development, improve performance, detect errors, and facilitate troubleshooting. For detailed information and guidance, you can check out our OpenTelemetry Tracing resource.

Author: Thanks @caroltyk I have updated PR with suggestion

{{< warning success >}}
**Warning**

With the release of Tyk Gateway 5.2, we're introducing a powerful new feature: OpenTelemetry Tracing. Over the next year, we'll be deprecating OpenTracing. We recommend migrating to OpenTelemetry for better trace insights and more comprehensive support. This change will offer you significant advantages in managing your distributed tracing needs.

{{< /warning >}}

## Support Lifetime

Full support for this release ends on May 2024. Extended support ends on May 2025.

## Downloads

> - [docker image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/layers/tykio/tyk-gateway/v5.2.0/images/sha256-075df4d840b452bfe2aa9bad8f1c1b7ad4ee06a7f5b09d3669f866985b8e2600?tab=vulnerabilities)

Reviewer 2: what is this link? You need to log in for it. Since It should be a direct link to the released image maybe it's best to leave it empty?

Author: Yep the link is the direct download link for developers to use the docker image

> - [source code](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/releases/tag/v5.1.2)

Reviewer 2: just be sure this is changed to 5.2...

Author: Before merging the PR the link will need to be updated to refer to the tag for release 5.2. Same for the docker image links

## Upgrading Tyk

Please refer to the [upgrading Tyk]({{< ref "/upgrading-tyk" >}}) page for further guidance with respect to upgrade strategy.

## Changelog

#### Added:

> - Added support for [configuring]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#opentelemetry" >}}) distributed tracing behaviour of Tyk Gateway. This includes enabling tracing, configuring exporter types, customising headers, specifying enhanced connectivity for HTTP, HTTPS and gRPC and setting the backend tracing URL. Subsequently, users have precise control over tracing behaviour in Tyk Gateway.

Author: Thanks @caroltyk I have updated PR with suggestion

> - Added support to configure OpenTelemetry [sampling types]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#opentelemetrysampling" >}}) (probabilistic, rate limiting, and adaptive) in the Tyk Gateway. This allows users to manage the need for collected detailed tracing information against performance and resource usage requirements.

Reviewer 2: names  need to be italic throughout the doc

> - Added support to configure OpenTelemetry [sampling types]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#opentelemetrysampling" >}}) (probabilistic, rate limiting, and adaptive) in the Tyk Gateway. This allows users to manage the need for collected detailed tracing information against performance and resource usage requirements.

Author: Thanks @caroltyk I have updated PR with suggestion

> - Added trace and span attributes to simplify identifying Tyk API and request meta-data per request. Example span attributes include: _tyk.api.id_, _tyk.api.name_, _tyk.api.orgid_, _tyk.api.tags_, _tyk.api.path_, _tyk.api.version_, _tyk.api.apikey_, _tyk.api.apikey.alias_ and _tyk.api.oauthid_. This allows users to use OpenTelemetry [semantic conventions](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/README.md) to filter and create metrics for increased insight and observability.

Author: Thanks @caroltyk I have updated PR with suggestion

- Added custom resource attributes: service.name, service.instance.id, service.version, tyk.gw.id, tyk.gw.dataplane, tyk.gw.group.id, tyk.gw.tags to allow process information to be available in traces.

- Added a new feature that allows clients to retrieve the trace ID from response headers. This feature is available when OpenTelemetry is [enabled]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#opentelemetryenabled" >}}) and simplifies debugging API requests, empowering users to seamlessly correlate and analyse data for a specific trace in any OpenTelemetry backend like [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/).

> - Added configuration parameter to enable/disable [detail_tracing]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/opentracing#step-2-enable-at-api-level" >}}) for Tyk Classic API.

Author: OpenTel enabled link in paragraph line 70 was obtained from a related PR. Preview is [here](https://deploy-preview-3173--tyk-docs.netlify.app/docs/nightly/tyk-oss-gateway/configuration/#opentelemetryenabled)

The current link for enabling detailed_tracing is _advanced-configuration/opentracing#step-2-enable-at-api-level_, e.g. [in this preview](https://deploy-preview-3173--tyk-docs.netlify.app/docs/nightly/advanced-configuration/opentracing/#enabling-distributed-tracing)

@sredxny @mativm02 Is the path for enabling/disabling detailed tracing correct? If not what would be the correct link path?

> - Added configuration parameter to enable/disable [detail_tracing]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/opentracing#step-2-enable-at-api-level" >}}) for Tyk Classic API.

Reviewer 3: https://deploy-preview-3212--tyk-docs.netlify.app/docs/nightly/product-stack/tyk-gateway/advanced-configurations/distributed-tracing/open-telemetry/open-telemetry-overview/#step-2-enable-detailed-tracing-at-api-level-optional

> - Added configuration parameter to enable/disable [detail_tracing]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/opentracing#step-2-enable-at-api-level" >}}) for Tyk Classic API.

Reviewer 3: The above is from latest PR #3212

> - Added configuration parameter to enable/disable [detail_tracing]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/opentracing#step-2-enable-at-api-level" >}}) for Tyk Classic API.

Author: Hi @caroltyk I have updated the link and CI link checks erroring. 

Once PR [#3225](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-docs/pull/3225) and [#3194](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-docs/pull/3194) have been merged then link check will pass

# Tyk Gateway (Open-Source) 5.2 Release Notes

### Breaking Changes

This release has no breaking changes.

## Release Highlights

We're thrilled to bring you some exciting enhancements and crucial fixes to improve your experience of Tyk Gateway.

### New Middleware Supports Request/Response Body Transformations

With this release we are adding the much requested Body Transformations to Tyk OAS. You can now configure middleware for both request and response body transformations and - as a Tyk Dashboard user - you’ll be able to do so from within our simple and elegant API Designer tool. 

> ### Reference Tyk OAS API Definition Fom Within Your Custom Go Plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reference Tyk OAS API Definition From Within Your Custom Go Plugins
```

(spotted a typo)

# Tyk Gateway (Open-Source) 5.2 Release Notes

### Breaking Changes

This release has no breaking changes.

## Release Highlights

We're thrilled to bring you some exciting enhancements and crucial fixes to improve your experience of Tyk Gateway.

> ### New Middleware Supports Request/Response Body Transformations

Reviewer: The change in the Gateway is the ability to configure Response Body Transforms for Tyk OAS APIs (we already have support for Request Body Transforms in the Gateway).

It's all new in the Dashboard UI, I'm sorry I wasn't clear previously.

Reviewer: I'd put it in the "Added" section in both, as it's new functionality.

With this release we are adding the much requested Body Transformations to Tyk OAS. You can now configure middleware for both request and response body transformations and - as a Tyk Dashboard user - you’ll be able to do so from within our simple and elegant API Designer tool. 

### Reference Tyk OAS API Definition Fom Within Your Custom Go Plugins

Reference the Tyk OAS API definition from within your custom Go Plugins, bringing them up to standard alongside those you might use with a Tyk Classic API.

> ### Configure Caching For Each API Endpoint

Reviewer: The first part of this (the ability to configure the per-endpoint timeout) is in the Gateway, the second part is Dashboard only.
I'd suggest cutting this down in the Gateway release note and putting the whole paragraph in the Dashboard one.

Author: Thanks @andyo-tyk for suggestion. Good spot, I've added full paragraph to dashboard release note summary and reduced the Gateway release note summary.

We’ve added the ability to configure per-endpoint timeouts for Tyk’s response cache, giving you increased flexibility to tailor your APIs to your upstream services. While doing this, we’ve also fixed a longstanding issue within the Tyk Dashboard so that you can configure more of the advanced caching options from within the UI.

> ### Track Usage Of License APIs, Gateways And Distributed Data Planes Over Time

Reviewer: This is a Dashboard feature - should be on the other page.

Author: Thanks @andyo-tyk I've moved it into release summary of Dashboard release notes

#### Reference Tyk OAS API Definition From Within Your Custom Go Plugins

Reference the Tyk OAS API definition from within your custom Go Plugins, bringing them up to standard alongside those you might use with a Tyk Classic API.

#### Configure Caching For Each API Endpoint

We’ve added the ability to configure per-endpoint timeouts for Tyk’s response cache, giving you increased flexibility to tailor your APIs to your upstream services.

#### Added Header Management in Universal Data Graph

With this release we are adding a concept of header management in Universal Data Graph. With multiple upstream data sources, data graphs need to be sending the right headers upstream, so that our users can effectively track the usage and be able to enforce security rules at each stage. All Universal Data Graph headers now have access to request context variables like JWT claims, IP address of the connecting client or request ID. This provides extensive configurability of customisable information that can be sent upstream.

#### Added Further Support For GraphQL WebSocket Protocols

> Support for WebSocket protocols between client and the Gateway has also been expanded. Instead of only supporting the _graphql-ws protocol_, which is becoming deprecated, we now also support _graphql-transport-ws_. 

Reviewer 2: this is a good place to add a direct link to the docs that shows how to use it, instead of making the users search for it

> Support for WebSocket protocols between client and the Gateway has also been expanded. Instead of only supporting the _graphql-ws protocol_, which is becoming deprecated, we now also support _graphql-transport-ws_. 

Reviewer 2: Can we also add an external  link to websocket protocol? is this a good link @pvormste ? https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455

Author: Adding this one for _graphql-transport-ws_ 

https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md

Author: Done

> Support for WebSocket protocols between client and the Gateway has also been expanded. Instead of only supporting the _graphql-ws protocol_, which is becoming deprecated, we now also support [_graphql-transport-ws_](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md). 

Reviewer 2: format issue

Author: @letzya I've updated italics in the PR to use * instead of _

#### Added OpenTelemetry Tracing

> In this version, we're introducing the support for _OpenTelemetry Tracing_, the new [open standard](https://opentelemetry.io/) for exposing observability data. This addition gives you improved visibility into how API requests are processed, with no additional license required. It is designed to help you with monitoring and troubleshooting APIs, identify bottlenecks, latency issues and errors in your API calls. For detailed information and guidance, you can check out our _OpenTelemetry Tracing_ resource.

Reviewer 2: @SonjaChevre @dcs3spp if we say `"you can check out our _OpenTelemetry Tracing_ resource."` we should be giving a link ;)

Author: @letzya Many thanks

@SonjaChevre I've added the link ready. Once [#3194](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-docs/pull/3194) is merged then CI link checks will be ok

Author: @letzya @SonjaChevre  Ci links are now ok

> This makes it possible to isolate faults within the request lifetime through inspecting API and Gateway meta-data. Additionally, performance bottlenecks can be identified within the request lifetime. API owners and developers can use this feature to understand how their APIs are being used or processed within the Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*OpenTelemetry* makes it possible to isolate faults within the request lifetime through inspecting API and Gateway meta-data. Additionally, performance bottlenecks can be identified within the request lifetime. API owners and developers can use this feature to understand how their APIs are being used or processed within the Gateway.
```

OpenTelemetry functionality is also available in Go Plugins. Developers can write code to add the ability to preview _OpenTelemetry_ trace attributes, error status codes etc., for their Go Plugins.

> We offer support for integrating _OpenTelemetry_ traces with supported source tools such [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/), [Dynatrace](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/extend-dynatrace/opentelemetry) or [New Relic](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-introduction/). This allows API owners and developers to gain troubleshooting and performance insights from error logs, reponse times etc.

Reviewer 2: @dcs3spp TBH, I think that as a user, I'd expect here to get direct links to the pages in which you can set up tyk with jaeger/newrelic/dynatrace, and not external links which will not help me understand how to use them with tyk.

Author: Done

{{< warning success >}}
**Warning**

> With the release of _Tyk Gateway 5.2_, we're introducing a powerful new feature: _OpenTelemetry Tracing_. Over the next year, we'll be deprecating _OpenTracing_. We recommend migrating to _OpenTelemetry_ for better trace insights and more comprehensive support. This change will offer you significant advantages in managing your distributed tracing needs.

Reviewer 2: `With the release of _Tyk Gateway 5.2_, we're introducing a powerful new feature: _OpenTelemetry Tracing_.` - feels a bit repeated reading this sentence just after i finished reading the exact same thing

Author: Done

- Added support for configuration of [global headers]({{< ref "/universal-data-graph/concepts/header_management" >}}) for any *UDG*. These headers will be forwarded to all data sources by default, enhancing control over data flow.

- Added the ability for Custom GoPlugin developers using *Tyk OAS APIs* to access the *API Definition* from within their plugin. The newly introduced *ctx.getOASDefinition* function provides read-only access to the *OAS API Definition* and enhances the flexibility of plugins.

- Added support for the websocket protocol, *graphql-transport-ws protocol*, enhancing communication between the client and *Gateway*. Users [connecting]({{< ref "/graphql/graphql-websockets" >}}) with the header *Sec-WebSocket-Protocol* set to *graphql-transport-ws* can now utilise messages from this [protocol](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md) for more versatile interaction.

> - Added support for API Developers using *Tyk OAS APIs* to [configure]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc#transformbody" >}}) a body transform middleware that operates on API responses. This enhancement ensures streamlined and selective loading of the middleware based on configuration, enabling precise response data customisation at the per-endpoint level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added support for API Developers using *Tyk OAS API Definition* to [configure]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc#transformbody" >}}) a body transform middleware that operates on API responses. This enhancement ensures streamlined and selective loading of the middleware based on configuration, enabling precise response data customisation at the per-endpoint level.
```

- Added support for simpler configuration of global headers for any UDG. These headers will be forwarded to all data sources by default, enhancing control over data flow.

- Added the ability for Custom Plugin developers to access the OAS API Definition through the newly introduced _ctx.getOASDefinition_ function. This enhancement simplifies development, without permitting modifications to the OAS API Definition.

- Added support for the websocket protocol, _graphql-transport-ws protocol_, enhancing communication between the client and Gateway. Users connecting with the header _Sec-WebSocket-Protocol_ set to _graphql-transport-ws_ can now utilise messages from this [protocol](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws/blob/master/PROTOCOL.md) for more versatile interaction.

- Added support for API Developers to effortlessly configure the Body response transform middleware for specific OAS API endpoints using the operationID of an OAS Path. This enhancement ensures streamlined and selective loading of the middleware based on configuration, enabling precise response data customization.

> - Added a new feature that allows clients to send API requests and retrieve the trace ID from the response headers. This feature is available when OpenTelemetry is [enabled]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#opentelemetryenabled" >}}) and simplifies debugging API requests, empowering users to seamlessly correlate and analyse data for a specific trace in [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/).

Author: Many thanks @caroltyk I have updated as suggested

> - Added support for improved gateway visibility. MDCB now helps monitor connected gateways and groups. This facilitates smoother operations and ensures accurate setup. Features such as edge gateway visualisation and enhanced licensing management are provided for further control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added support for enhanced Gateway usage reporting. MDCB v2.4 and Gateway v5.2 can now report number of connected gateways and groups. Features such as edge gateway visualisation is available in Dashboard for enhanced monitoring of your deployment.
```

- Added custom resource attributes: service.name, service.instance.id, service.version, tyk.gw.id, tyk.gw.dataplane, tyk.gw.group.id, tyk.gw.tags to allow process information to be available in traces.

- Added a new feature that allows clients to retrieve the trace ID from response headers. This feature is available when OpenTelemetry is [enabled]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#opentelemetryenabled" >}}) and simplifies debugging API requests, empowering users to seamlessly correlate and analyse data for a specific trace in any OpenTelemetry backend like [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/).

- Added configuration parameter to enable/disable [detail_tracing]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/opentracing#step-2-enable-at-api-level" >}}) for Tyk Classic API.

> - Added an optimised query execution engine for GraphQL, activated by setting [opentelemetry.enabled]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#opentelemetryenabled" >}}) to _true_. This integration enhances observability by enabling GQL traces in [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/), granting users comprehensive insights into the execution process, including request times.

Reviewer 4: I don't understand this one. OTel has nothing to do with optimised query execution engine. We haven't done anything like that.

Author: Ok many thanks @agata-wit for catching this. I'll check the Jira tickets on Confluence to see where this item originated from and will update with the details here

Reviewer 4: Yeah, this makes sense now :)

- Added a new [timeout option]({{< ref "basic-config-and-security/reduce-latency/caching/advanced-cache#advanced-caching-by-endpoint" >}}), offering granular control over cache timeout at the endpoint level.

> - Added support for using [request context variables]({{< ref "context-variables#the-available-context-variables-are" >}}) in UDG global or data source headers. This feature enables customising request data transformations, such as converting a form-based POST into a JSON-based PUT.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Added support for using [request context variables]({{< ref "context-variables#the-available-context-variables-are" >}}) in UDG global or data source headers. This feature enables much more advanced header management for UDG and allows users to extract header information from an incoming request and passing it to upstream data sources.
```

> - Added support for simpler configuration of global headers for any UDG. These headers will be forwarded to all data sources by default, enhancing control over data flow.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Added support for configuration of global headers for any UDG. These headers will be forwarded to all data sources by default, enhancing control over data flow.
```
